=head1 NAME

Mojolicious::Plugin::ReplyTable - Easily render rectangular data in many formats using Mojolicious

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Mojolicious::Lite;
  plugin 'ReplyTable';

  any '/table' => sub {
    my $c = shift;
    my $data = [
      [qw/a b c d/],
      [qw/e f g h/],
    ];
    $c->reply->table($data);
  };

  app->start;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

L<Mojolicious::Plugin::ReplyTable> adds the C<< reply->table >> helper which can render a table of data in one of several user-selected formats.

Loading the plugin also sets up several MIME types (using L<Mojolicious::Types>, see L<Mojolicious/types>), and appends the module to the list of rendering classes (See L<Mojolicious/renderer>).

=head1 HELPERS

=head2 reply->table

  $c->reply->table([[...], [...], ... ]]);
  $c->reply->table($default => $data, html => sub { ... });

Renders an arrayref of arrayrefs (the inner arrayref being a row) in one of several formats listed below.
An optional leading argument is used as the default format when one is not otherwise requested.
Optional trailing key-value pairs are merged into the arguments to L<Mojolicious::Controller/respond_to>.

Any additional options, particularly those governing formatting details is via stash keys prefixed by C<reply_table.>.
Note that the prefix C<reply_table.private.> is reserved for internal use.

The formats currently include:

=head3 csv

Implemented via L<Text::CSV> using the default values with C<binary> enabled.
The ability to modify the formatter is planned and will likely utilize stash keys.

=head3 html

Implemented via the standard L<Mojolicious> rendering functionality and a template named C<reply_table>.
Setting the stash key C<reply_table.header_row> to a true value will cause the default template to use the first row as header values.
This default template may be overloaded to change the formatting, the table is available to the template via the stash key C<reply_table.table>.

=head3 json

Implemented via the standard L<Mojo::JSON> handling.

=head3 txt

A textual representation of the table is generated via L<Mojo::Util::tablify>.
This format is intended for human consumption and the specific formatting should not be relied upon.
The use of a more sofisticated external formatter, perhaps an ASCII art generator, is being considered.

=head3 xls

Binary Microsoft Excel format (for older editions of Excel), provided by optional module L<Spreadsheet::WriteExcel>.
If that module is not installed, the client will receive an error status 406.

=head3 xls

XML Microsoft Excel format (for newer editions of Excel), provided by optional module L<Excel::Writer::XLSX>.
If that module is not installed, the client will receive an error status 406.

=head1 METHODS

This module inherits all the methods from L<Mojolicious::Plugin> and implements the following new ones

=head2 register

The typical mechanism of loading a L<Mojolicious::Plugin>.
No pass-in options are currently available.

=head1 FUTURE WORK

Beyond what is mentioned in the specifc formats above, the following work is planned.
If any of it tickles your fancy, pull-requests are always welcome.

=over

=item *

Better tests for generated Excel documents

=item *

Exposing the formatters so that they can be used directly

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item L<Mojolicious>

=item L<https://metacpan.org/pod/Mojolicious::Plugin::WriteExcel>

=back

=head1 SOURCE REPOSITORY

L<http://github.com/jberger/Mojolicious-Plugin-ReplyTable>

=head1 DEVELOPMENT SPONSORED BY

Restore Health Corporation, L<http://restorhc.com>

=head1 AUTHOR

Joel Berger, E<lt>joel.a.berger@gmail.comE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2015 by Joel Berger
This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

